---
layout: post
title: "First impressions playing with RBXGS, Roblox's 2008 game servers"
tags: [Roblox]
image: /blog/media/TODO.png
# description: "Roblox's game servers (the predecessor to RCCService) from 2007 and 2008 were recently discovered by the Roblox Client Search community. I got to play it recently on a private server!"
date: 2023-07-15
published: false
---

> <https://archive.org/details/rbxgssetup>
>
> A bunch of RBXGS server binaries from early November 2007 - early March 2008 have been found by @genosmrpg7899. These were used for hosting Roblox game servers and rendering thumbnails. Another important note is that they include full debug symbols which has line numbers, function names, full class structs and global variables names. This was later renamed to RCCService and was separated from Microsoft IIS.
>
> Note: this includes a bunch of versions that we don't have a client equivalent for.
>
> To run this Windows Server 2003 with IIS installed is recommended
>
> Updater arbiters: <https://archive.org/details/rbxgsupdatersetup>

-*NT_x86* on the [Roblox Client Search Discord server](https://discord.gg/CHFK7eXXMY)

That's the discovery. But why is it important? I'll get into that now.

## The state of hosting classic Roblox clients

I'm not an expert on this stuff, so take this with a grain of salt.

Roblox private servers, launchers, and revivals use the Roblox client or Studio to host games. Essentially, it makes use of the built-in server that it comes with. This server is used by Studio for game developers to test a game. It even opens to LAN by default!

Obviously, Roblox doesn't release the server binaries, so this is the workaround that's been used for over a decade. Roblox is far too complex to substantially reverse-engineer or modify, let alone make a custom reverse-engineered server for.

You might think this is a pretty hacky way to do it that causes inaccuracy/stability issues, but in reality, it works perfectly fine. It's kinda clunky, and sucks, but it works.

## The RBXGS discovery

[**Please read the Roblox Client Search team's article on RBXGS for a much deeper historical and technical explanation!**](https://robloxpolis.com)

`TODO change link when its uploaded`

But in short, it was unearthed *from Roblox's public content servers*. That's right, it was sitting there this whole time.

RBXGS, Roblox Grid Service, is a fork of the client to act as a backend service for hosting games and generating thumbnails. It was later renamed to RCCService later in 2008.

Some builds of RCCService from the mid-2010s were discovered some time ago, which allowed private servers of those versions to exist. Now, versions of it from November 2007 to April 2008 are archived and available for public use.

## How it's hosted and used

**Again, more detailed info can be found on the Client Search post, and in their Discord server. A comprehensive hosting guide is out of the scope of this blog post.**

RBXGS relied on Microsoft's IIS, Internet Information Services, a webserver used by Roblox in their early days before migrating to more efficient tools and servers. This means in order to run RBXGS, you must setup an IIS server, using a version of it from around the time.

IIS is closely coupled with Windows Server, so its practically impossible to make this work on a modern version of Windows (or ReactOS and Wine, for that matter). The simplest way to get this working is to install Windows Server 2003, either on real hardware or a virtual machine. Set up IIS, then just run the RBXGS installers from the Archive.org link provided above to start hosting like Roblox did.

But... how would you play this with other people? Well, people have already got it working in various ways, including a private server I've been playing and developing for in mid-July!

## First impressions with RBXGS

I got the custom-made program to join self-hosted servers, set my character, joined a server, and...

it's slow. Trying to move and jump feels like walking through molasses! And the game lags heavily when loading assets. If a new player joins in, expect the server to freeze up for a few seconds.

Sounds like a scathing review, but honestly, its quite bearable once you get used to it. **And I should tell you, this isn't RBXGS's fault but a fundamental flaw of every Roblox version before 2010. It just... had server-sided movement**. This means every time you try to move, your game has to talk to the server to move your character. Practically every online multiplayer game instead uses *client-sided* movement, to make movement appear smooth on your end before it tells the server to move your character for everyone else.

Still, it tends to be fairly smooth a lot of the time. Part of the problem can be attributed to internet speeds, the complexity of the game, and the amount of players connected. Lag spikes from loading player assets is an issue inherent to RBXGS, however. I seriously hope the game servers for 2010, 11, or 12 can be found, look 08 is charming but the input delay is ROUGH.

> input lag is like sugar you build a tolerance to it over time
-*KeyboardCombination*

All in all, there's practically no noticable differences to playing on a server hosted with RBXGS versus a server hosted with Studio. People who've played on 2015-2018 clients that have leaked RCCs told me the same thing -- RCC and Studio feel identical to play on.

## Why RBXGS is important despite everything

So, it's not really a game-changer in terms of performance, stability, security, nothing. Why go to the trouble of using it other than for the novelty? Why is it important at all, besides for archival's sake?

Well, remember what I said about Roblox being too complex to reverse engineer? **Not anymore.** RBXGS contains full debug symbols.

(Debug symbols are essentially a way for programmers to map parts of compiled code in software to the source code, making it easier to debug. If you have debug symbols, you now know the original names and purposes of every variable, function, class of the program, along with many more goodies.)

Debug symbols make it trivially easy to decompile these servers. Not just the servers, but the clients too! After all, RBXGS is built off the client's code, so this data can be applied to the clients of the time -- even older ones, like the March and August 2007 clients that were found.

If we could decompile it, we could modify the game however we pleased. Fix exploits, optimize the game, even port it to other platforms and operating systems. Imagine that...

## The future of the client searching scene

Unfortunately, Roblox has purged these files from their servers after word got out. This might mean that a lot more files waiting to be discovered if their URLs got identified -- will never be archived by us, as Roblox got rid of them too. Still, who knows what is yet to be found on other Roblox servers?

As for RBXGS, I don't think this will replace the primary hosting method any time soon, due to how complex setting it up is. And while the debug symbols allow decompilation and modification to be on the table, it'll still take an unreal amount of effort to accomplish.  Some people may or may not be working on projects; it'll take weeks if not months for anything meaningful to result from it. If something does happen, I'll be sure to make a blog post on it.

## What's next for me

Well, I'll still be playing because I am genuinely having fun. I haven't played 2008 Roblox in a few years, and I forgot how uniquely charming the entire experience is. Roblox from 2006 to 2012 are all lumped together as classics, but I think 2006-2009 has a slightly different flavor to 2010-2012 versions of the game.

*I'm also developing for it!* I'm currently working on a project inspired by Mario Party.

`TODO add image here`

It's going to be much more short and fast paced to fit better as a classic Roblox game. **No more turn-based gameplay.** Everyone moves and acts at the same time. Minigames also take place on the game board. Did I mention game board spaces are now giant floating islands?

Stay tuned for more info, both on the project and any new breakthroughs in the client search and reverse engineering scenes! That's all for now!
