---
layout: post
title:  '"Yet another blog on the internet?"'
date:   2022-03-07 23:55:13 -0500
categories: update personal
---

Well, I guess blogs on the internet are sorta dead, hm? Their time has passed a while ago, and now people used centralized platforms instead of their own selfhosted options.
Not that I'm totally against that, they have benefits, but I believe there's a charm to this self-hosted style of doing everything yourself. It's not for everyone, though.

Will I use this blog? I'm not sure if people will want to hear my opinions, or if I want to put them out online.
I'll probably use the blog to talk about things that I have done, or plan to do, related to my path in learning programming, this website, and probably other things. See you later!

##### For those who want to know, I'm using Jekyll for this static blog.

You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. You can rebuild the site in many different ways, but the most common way is to run `jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated.

Jekyll requires blog post files to be named according to the following format:

`YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`

Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers, and `MARKUP` is the file extension representing the format used in the file. After that, include the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
