---
layout: post
category: dailynote
title: "2023 reflection"
tags: [thought, personal]
date: 2023-12-28
published: false
---
Since 2023 is over in a few days, I want to recap what happened in 2023.

## Quick Stats

- I made **33** posts, wow!!
  - **6** blog posts
  - **20** dailynotes
  - **7** devlogs
- I reached **115** followers on Mastodon (thank you, everyone!!)
- Released **0** old Roblox projects :')
  - Made **6** basic prototypes
  - Got **2** games decently far
  - Cancelled **1** ([the farming game](/devlog/farming-3.html)). [Micrathena](/projects/micrathena.html) will live 🤫
- Redesigned the site **3** times ([1](/blog/general-update.html) [2](/blog/general-update-2.html) [3](/blog/update-3.html)). But this one is here to stay.
- Posted about regrets for being lazy and not posting **6** times ([1](/blog/general-update.html) [2](/blog/general-update-2.html) [3](/blog/update-3.html) [4](/dailynote/blog-more.html) [5](/dailynote/where-are-the-notes.html) [6](/dailynote/hi.html))

## Other stuff

I don't really care for the first half of this year. I believe my life began taking a turn towards becoming truly meaningful and impactful some time around then, culminating with the [trip to Seattle](blog/wa.html), which fulfilled a lot of my desires and thoughts. It helped define my path, even if it's not entirely aimed towards Seattle (99% chance I will attend college in Florida for money reasons). I don't really want to read my older posts because of how soulless my life was back then. Another thing that helped me step out of the "soulless times" was new faces in my family. I won't get that personal on here, at least right now, but it really brightened my life up and pushed me.

I'm still not there yet. In fact, I kinda suck in so many ways!! I fail to deliver, I fail to be punctual, etc. But I think I have grown a lot compared to who I was 1 year ago. I have a defined plan for the future, and I feel like I've matured enough to handle the beginning of my adult life.

My junior year of high school ended in May, and I did not like that year very much. It was filled with classes I just did not enjoy taking, and generally was a waste of time. My senior year, is different. As one effort to leave the *soulless phase* I wanted to stop autopiloting through what is the most impactful thing in my life - school. Those classes happened because I did not fully consider what they entail and how it will affect my future. I wanted to think consciously about the classes I take in my final year of high school. It's hard to reverse course in your last year of high school, but I'm grateful that I'm given the controls one last time. So this time, it's great! I cut classes I didn't like, and I took a few I'm new to. My Psychology class especially is something entirely novel to me, but I'm learning a lot that happens to apply to other parts of my life in roundabout ways.

On the positive side, I did work on the [Roblox Legacy Wiki](https://wiki.realja.me) project considerably, and while it's not fully there, I'm happy with its current state. It's helped a LOT of people, and I'm extremely happy to hear your praises in the various Discord servers I lurk in. Thank you all!
