---
layout: post
category: dailynote
title: "Saving drafts"
tags: [personal, thought, writing]
date: 2024-4-4
published: true
---
Sometimes I have a fragment of a thought about something. Like my mind has a point to make, or I just have the idea for something slightly poetical or writing-y.

And I would just let it go, because... I don't know, actually. Probably I didn't care enough to write it down when I got the opportunity too.

I decided yesterday to just start writing these down. I already journal a little bit, but I feel like writing down these thoughts is something important I should do.

And why is that, exactly? I don't know. I just wanna post more often, both here and on Mastodon, and I want to post more writing-y posts of all kinds; like just talking about stuff, or more poetical artsy kind of things. You'll see, I suppose. Actually, *I'll* see too, because I have no idea what exactly will happen as a result of this, lol.

So if I have a thought that feels like a post, I open my Mastodon app, I write it, and I click save as draft. And it's saved.[^1] If I can't do that at the moment, I write it down whenever I can!

I'm also writing down drafts for blog posts finally, so that will be good too.[^2]

[^1]: What's the deal with drafts in Mastodon, actually? Megalodon, the app I use, has them, but not the web UI. Kinda makes me worried that I might lose my drafts one day because they're entirely local...
[^2]: This post was originally a draft I wrote on my phone yesterday!
